# Introduction

JavaScript is one of the popular languages in today's era. With rapid mobile device usage increase and the requirement for high-end processing huge chunks of data at client side. JavaScript is not just treated as fronted scripting language with the purpose of just displaying & doing some simple event on click of a button for static pages. It is evolving at a faster rate than any other languages. The problem is not with the pace it is moving, but as there is no centralized guiding body to govern all the innovation happening around JS community. ECMAScript is the governing body which manages & maintain language standards. it is more like a guideline providers, but implementation across the community & users is decentralized. Popular browsers like Google Chrome, Firefox, Safari etc has their own implementation & different model for processing JavaScript with some common ground for developers. As a stable version of each browser will support standard ECMAScript-like 3,5 etc version with some plus or minus in feature across the wide range of devices. They make sure legacy application build with basic functionality to advance feature should work perfectly.

To address such limitation, the community comes with diverse & solutions which make developer life easier & supports dynamic data-driven application which can handle a large user base & perform the complex task with the thin client side. Without disturbing the client echo system. Embracing the design principles which can orient application to be more domain driven.

This book mainly focuses on provide a bird-eye view of the current JavaScript echo system & connection between the various puzzles that are required to build modern applications. It is difficult to keep up with the rapid developing pace & innovative implementation that are changing the way applications are developed now. Knowing just JavaScript programming concepts are not enough to design the solution need today with the time frame. Continuous integration along with continuous delivery & complex processing at client-side over the slow connection with the requirement of native mobile application requires much more sophisticated design principles & frameworks that support the demand for such applications.

The book is divided into conceptual broad categories which give you an understanding of each bit & pieces that are needed to build a complete base vocabulary with popular open source tools, libraries & concepts. This book won't cover the category topic entirely, but gave you enough understanding about the specific section that will enable you to decide between what you should use or what shouldn't. Depth areas will be only covered for specific topics which are required to make sense out of entire book.
